PROJ-206 : Added verification to UPPAAL Section (#126)
SW805F20/report: sections/sprint-4/updated-uppaal.tex

\end{figure}

% Trace example of the system
\subsection{Verification of the models}
In \uppaal it is also possible to perform verifications on the model to ensure that some properties hold true for the model.
This is done by creating a query that the \uppaal engine can then verify on the model.
It is then possible to get a trace of that query that either proves or disproves the query.
To demonstrate this a query was verified on the application-level model and the full model.

> The property that was verified was \uppEF{Host.InGame and forall(i:id_t) Client(i).InGame}.

Reviewer: skriv hvad det betyder med EF

\subsubsection{Verification of the application-level model}
The property held true for the model an the trace that was produced can be seen on \autoref{fig:sprint4-verification-application-level}.
As can be seen on the trace, all of the clients go through the process of connecting without timing out.
When all of the clients have connected, the \uppProc{Host} starts the game through the \uppSync{TCP_start_game} synchronization and the host and all of the clients transition to the \uppLoc{InGame} location.
\begin{figure}[H]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=0.8\linewidth]{sprint4/application-level-verification.png}

>     \caption{Verification trace of the application-level model.}

Reviewer: måske skrive at tracet viser hvordan man kan gå fra start og frem til hvor host er ingame og alle andre er ingame samtidig? Måske at det er the shortest trace?

    \label{fig:sprint4-verification-application-level}
\end{figure}

\subsubsection{Verification of the Full model}
The property also held true for the full model and the trace can be seen on \autoref{fig:sprint4-verification-full-model}.
As can be seen in the trace all of the clients connect through the three-way handshake.
All of the clients successfully transition to \uppLoc{Lobby} without any timeouts.
When all of the clients have connected the host makes all of the clients transition to \uppLoc{InGame} through TCP.
After all of the clients have transitioned to the \uppLoc{InGame} location the host also transitions to \uppLoc{InGame} and the game starts.
\begin{figure}[H]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=0.8\linewidth]{sprint4/full-model-verification.png}
    \caption{Verification trace of the full model.}
    \label{fig:sprint4-verification-full-model}
\end{figure}

\subsection{Conclusion}
The models introduced in this section were mostly used to create an overview of the network protocol and the flow of the game.
All the verification done on the models was done to verify that the models were behaving as expected and not to test the actual system.

> It might have been useful to use to models to verify the actual implementation of the network protocol and the flow of the application, but this was deemed to not be a priority for the project.

Reviewer: Sammenlign trace fra de to modeller og fortæl hvad forskellen er, hvad kan den ene udtrykke som den anden ikke kan?

> So the models were only created to function as a visual representation of the application and the network protocol.

Reviewer: det er vel også for at sikre at vi havde en understanding om hvordan flowet skulle være?

    \label{fig:sprint4-verification-application-level}
\end{figure}

\subsubsection{Verification of the Full model}
The property also held true for the full model and the trace can be seen on \autoref{fig:sprint4-verification-full-model}.
As can be seen in the trace all of the clients connect through the three-way handshake.
All of the clients successfully transition to \uppLoc{Lobby} without any timeouts.
When all of the clients have connected the host makes all of the clients transition to \uppLoc{InGame} through TCP.
After all of the clients have transitioned to the \uppLoc{InGame} location the host also transitions to \uppLoc{InGame} and the game starts.
\begin{figure}[H]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=0.8\linewidth]{sprint4/full-model-verification.png}
    \caption{Verification trace of the full model.}
    \label{fig:sprint4-verification-full-model}
\end{figure}

Both of the traces end in the same state, but there is a difference in how they get there.
While the application-level model has simplified communication between the host and the client the full model trace also expresses the steps that are done in the TCP communication.

> It models how the threeway communication works and how TCP messages are sent between the host and the clients to ensure that the clients and the host receive the messages sent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It models how the three-way handshake works and how TCP messages are sent between the host and the clients to ensure that the clients and the host receive the messages sent.
```

\subsection{Conclusion}
The models introduced in this section were mostly used to create an overview of the network protocol and the flow of the game.

> All the verification done on the models was done to verify that the models were behaving as expected and not to test the actual system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All the verifications done on the models were done to verify that the models were behaving as expected and not to test the actual system.
```

As can be seen in the trace all of the clients connect through the three-way handshake.
All of the clients successfully transition to \uppLoc{Lobby} without any timeouts.
When all of the clients have connected the host makes all of the clients transition to \uppLoc{InGame} through TCP.
After all of the clients have transitioned to the \uppLoc{InGame} location the host also transitions to \uppLoc{InGame} and the game starts.
\begin{figure}[H]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=0.8\linewidth]{sprint4/full-model-verification.png}
    \caption{Verification trace of the full model.}
    \label{fig:sprint4-verification-full-model}
\end{figure}

Both of the traces end in the same state, but there is a difference in how they get there.
While the application-level model has simplified communication between the host and the client the full model trace also expresses some of steps that are done in the TCP communication.
It models how the three-way handshake works and how TCP messages are sent between the host and the clients to ensure that the clients and the host receive the messages sent.

> This allows us to verify if there happen some TCP specific mistakes in the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows us to verify if some TCP specific mistakes happen in the system.
```
